Editor enhancements docs (#2222)
telerik/blazor-docs: components/editor/prosemirror-plugins.md

---
title: ProseMirror Plugins
page_title:  ProseMirror Plugins
description: Explore how to use the ProseMirror Plugins in the Editor for Blazor uses.
slug: editor-prosemirror-plugins
tags: telerik,blazor,editor,prosemirror,plugins
published: True
position: 130
---

# ProseMirror Plugins

> The Telerik UI for Balzor Editor component is based on the [ProseMirror library](https://prosemirror.net/). ProseMirror provides a set of tools and concepts for building rich text editors, using user interface inspired by what-you-see-is-what-you-get.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Telerik UI for Blazor Editor component is based on the [ProseMirror library](https://prosemirror.net/). ProseMirror provides a set of tools and concepts for building rich text editors, using user interface inspired by what-you-see-is-what-you-get.
```

Reviewer 2: "user interface inspired by what-you-see-is-what-you-get." does not sound very English to me, so I would remove it.

Note that we may use "rich text editor" for [another component](https://feedback.telerik.com/blazor/1435752-rich-text-editor).

> ## Concept

Reviewer: Consider switching to `Plugins Concept` to match what you did in the schema overview with `Schema Concept`

The ProseMirror [plugin system](https://prosemirror.net/docs/ref/#state.Plugin_System) enables developers to create custom tools and functionality. One of the main building blocks of each editor is its [`EditorState`](https://prosemirror.net/docs/ref/#state) object. The state is created through a static [`create`](https://prosemirror.net/docs/ref/#state.EditorState%5Ecreate) method which takes a configuration object, containing the starting document node, the [`Schema`](https://prosemirror.net/docs/ref/#model.Schema), and a collection of [plugins](https://prosemirror.net/docs/ref/#state.Plugin) which will be active in this state.

> Plugins are instances of the [`Plugin` class](https://prosemirror.net/docs/ref/#state.Plugin) and can model a wide variety of features. The basic ones only add some [properties](https://prosemirror.net/docs/ref/#view.EditorProps) to the editor view to respond to certain events, for example. More complicated features may add a new state to the editor and update it based on [transactions](https://prosemirror.net/docs/ref/#state.Transaction).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Plugins are instances of the [`Plugin` class](https://prosemirror.net/docs/ref/#state.Plugin) and can model a wide variety of features. The basic ones may only add some [properties](https://prosemirror.net/docs/ref/#view.EditorProps) to the editor view to respond to certain events. More complicated features may add a new state to the editor and update it based on [transactions](https://prosemirror.net/docs/ref/#state.Transaction).
```

> For further details about the ProseMirror plugins, refer to [the this ProseMirror guide](https://prosemirror.net/docs/guide/#state.plugins).

Reviewer: Use the recommended syntax for external links (see my note in the Schema overview).

> For further details about the ProseMirror plugins, refer to [the this ProseMirror guide](https://prosemirror.net/docs/guide/#state.plugins).

Reviewer 2: "the this" - pick one

## Adding a Custom Plugin

> The ProseMirror library is JavaScript based and adding plugins to the Editor is performed through JavaScript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ProseMirror library is JavaScript-based and adding plugins to the Editor is performed through JavaScript.
```

> The ProseMirror library is JavaScript based and adding plugins to the Editor is performed through JavaScript.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ProseMirror is JavaScript library and adding plugins to the Editor requires JavaScript.
```

> To add a custom plugin to the Editor for Blazor, use the `Plugins` parameter (`string`). It accepts a `string` - the name of the JS function declared in the global scope (`window` object) that is used to provide custom ProseMirror plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a custom plugin to the Editor for Blazor, use the `Plugins` parameter (`string`). It accepts a `string`&mdash;the name of the JS function declared in the global scope (`window` object) that is used to provide custom ProseMirror plugins.
```

> To add a custom plugin to the Editor for Blazor, use the `Plugins` parameter (`string`). It accepts a `string` - the name of the JS function declared in the global scope (`window` object) that is used to provide custom ProseMirror plugins.

Reviewer 2: You can use a similar text structure as on the schema pages:

```suggestion
To add a custom plugin to the Editor, use the `Plugins` parameter. Set this `string` parameter to the name of a JavaScript function that:

* ....
* ....
```

The function accepts an `arguments` object with the following properties:

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/parameters-table-styles.md#table-layout)

| Property | Description |
|----------|-------------|

> | `getSchema` | A function that returns the current [`Schema` object](https://prosemirror.net/docs/ref/#model.Schema). Before the Editor is initialized, the `Schema` is the default `Schema`. After the Editor is initialized, the returned `Schema` is the updated schema. Iy you don't provide a custom schema, this function always retrns the default schema. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `getSchema` | A function that returns the current [`Schema` object](https://prosemirror.net/docs/ref/#model.Schema). Before the Editor is initialized, the `Schema` is the default `Schema`. After the Editor is initialized, the returned `Schema` is the updated schema. If you don't provide a custom schema, this function always returns the default schema. |
```

> | `getView` | A function that returns the currently used instance of [`EditorView` object](https://prosemirror.net/docs/ref/#view.EditorView). Before the Editor is initialized, the view (the result of the function) is null. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `getView` | A function that returns the currently used instance of the [`EditorView` object](https://prosemirror.net/docs/ref/#view.EditorView). Before the Editor is initialized, the view (the result of the function) is null. |
```

| `ProseMirror` | An object that contains various ProseMirror classes and functions.|
| `getPlugins` | A function that accepts `Schema` as an argument and returns the default Editor plugins. The function must return an array of ProseMirror plugins. |

> To ensure all the built-in functionalities of the Editor are working correctly, the result array must contain the default plugins which can be retrieved by calling the `getPlugins` function.

>caption Adding a Placeholder Plugin

```CSHTML
@using Telerik.Blazor.Components.Editor
@inject IJSRuntime js

> <script>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
@* Move JavaScript code to a separate JS file in production *@
<script suppress-error="BL9992">
```

                        };
                        doc.descendants((node, pos) => {
                            decorations.push(args.ProseMirror.Decoration.node(pos, pos + node.nodeSize, decAttrs));
                        });
                        return args.ProseMirror.DecorationSet.create(doc, decorations);
                    }
                }
            });
        }        

        return [...args.getPlugins(schema), placeholder("Enter some content ...")];
    }

    function injectEditorStyleTag() {
        var doc = document.querySelector("iframe").contentWindow.document;
        var head = doc.querySelector("head");

        var style = doc.createElement("style");
        style.type = "text/css";

        var iframeStyles = `p.placeholder:first-child:before {
                        content: attr(data-placeholder);
                        float: left;
                        color: rgb(0, 0, 0, 0.5);
                        cursor: text;
                        height: 0;
                        font-style: italic;
                    }`;

        style.appendChild(doc.createTextNode(iframeStyles));
        head.appendChild(style);
    };
</script>

> <TelerikEditor Height="400px"

Reviewer 2: I would move the Editor tag to the top. In this way, the reader will see something familiar first, including the Plugins parameter value. This may help the reader to identify bits in the JavaScript code afterwards.

Applies to all similar snippets.

               Width="700px"
               @bind-Value="@EditorValue"
               Plugins="pluginsProvider">
</TelerikEditor>

@code {
    private string EditorValue { get; set; }

    protected override async Task OnAfterRenderAsync(bool firstRender)
    {
        if (firstRender)
        {
            await js.InvokeVoidAsync("injectEditorStyleTag");
        }
    }
}
```

## See Also

* [Live Demo: Editor - ProseMirror Plugins](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/editor/prosemirror-plugins)

> 

Reviewer: You can link to the Schema overview as well.
